Copyright (C) 2011 Leon N. Maurer
https://mywebspace.wisc.edu/lnmaurer/web/
Source code available under the GNU Public License.

aacalc: An odds calculator for Axis and Allies

This program calculates the exact odds for battles in the revised edition of
the Axis and Allies board game; it does not estimate the results using
randomness. There are two versions of the program: an offline program with a
graphical user interface made with Tk, and an online version that is used
through a web browser. All rules except special submarine rules (first strike,
cannot attack aircraft) are implemented. I have a plan for how to implement
sub rules -- I'll get around to it when I have time and if there's demand. The
current version is quite speedy if Ruby/GSL is installed (otherwise, it's
somewhat slower).

I'm hosting the online version on my server. You can find it at
http://leon-server.dyndns.org:88/ if my server is on (it usually is).

NOTE: I chose the name for this program before checking if it was already in
use. There is a different AAcalc which is an online odds simulator. It can be
found at <http://frood.net/aacalc/>. I have no affiliation with that project.

Usage instructions for the offline version follow. The online version has usage
instructions on its pages.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Controls:

Technology and AA guns: click the appropriate check boxes.

Adding units: either use the up and down arrows, or enter the text directly in
to the boxes.

Sorting units: this is the order the units will be lost in. The first unit to
be lost is at the top. Clicking "value" or "power" will sort the units by that
criteria. You can also put them in a custom order using the up and down
buttons. They will move whatever units is currently selected in the list. After
hitting 'Calculate', numbers will appear next to the units. See the next item
for an explanation.

Calculate: finds the odds for the battle. This will add numbers next to the
units in the lists. The number is the probability that the unit (and all units
lost after it) will survive the battle.

Clear: clears the units for the associated side.

Attacker wins: probability of attacker winning.

Defender wins: probability of defender winning.

Mutual annihilation: probability of no units surviving the battle.

Sum: The sum of the previous three probabilities. This is shown as a debugging
feature — it should always be very close to "1.0". If it is not, feel free to
contact the author with details about the battle.

Save Last Battle: saves the details of the calculated battle in a text file for
future reference.